npm init -y

npm install react --save

npm install react-dom

npm install webpack --save

npm install webpack-dev-server

npm install webpack-cli // webpack command line 

npm install babel-core --save-dev // transpiler,Webpack is a bundler whereas Gulp/Babel is a task runner,

npm install babel-loader // 

npm install babel-preset//

npm install babel-env

npm install html-webpack-plugin --save-dev

constructor - to initialize class members,variables etc.

super - calling base class component.e.g - 
class abc extends React.Component {} to call Component class we use super keyword.
encapsulation example - creating multiple classes and put in one class file is example of encapsulation and then export that one class only.

key - it is for unique index for table , so cannot access outside.


--------------------------------------------

react js -
it is front end js library developed by fb. it follows component based approach which helps in developing reusable ui comp.
it is used to develop complex and interactive based mobile ui.

features -
1. it uses virtual dom instead of real dom, it uses server side rendering. it uses uni directional data flow/binding.
diff b/w real and virtual dom-
it update slowly, can directly update html. too much memory wastage. crate new dom if element updates.dom manupulation is very expensive.
vertual dom - 
it updates faster. cann't directly update html. no memory wastage. dom manupulation is very easy.

advantages-
it increases performance of App. It can be coniviently used on client and server side, because jsx code readability increases.
easy to intigrate other frame work such as angular.

diff b/w angular and react -
react-
it's architecture is only view of Mvc , IT RENDER On server side.
uses vertual dom
it has compile time debugging 

angular-
it's arch. is complete MVC.
it render on client side
uses real dom
it has two way data binding
it has run time debugging

---------------------------
jsx -
it stands for java script xml.this file is used by react which utilises the expresiveness of js along with html like template syntax.
this file makes app robust and boost it's performance.browser cannot understand jsx because it can only read js objects. jsx is not regular js object.
so to enable browser to read jsx, first we need to trasform jsx file into js object using jsx trasformer like babel and then pass it to browser.

--------------------------
Babel - babel loader is used to traslate jsx syntax into javascript. babel is highly configurable compiler which compile jsx file into js version.
-------------------------
render function -

each react comp. must have render mandatoryliy.
it always return single react element which is representtion of native dom comp.
if more than one html element needs to be rendered then they must be grouped together inside one enclosing tag.
----------------------
props-
it is nothing but properties in react. they are read only comp. 
they are always passed out from parent to child comp throughout app.
child comp can never send props back to the comp. 
this helps in maintaining uni directional data flow and are generally used to render
dynamically generated data.
-----------------
state -
state is main part of react comp. state are source of data and must be kept as simple as possible.
state are the objects which determinds comp rendering and behavior.
states are mutable where as props are immutable
we can chage inside the component.
------------------
note-
react component lifecycle-
1.initial rendering phase (init)- this is phase when comp is about to start. its life journey and makes it way to the dom.
2.updating phase - once the comp added to the dom, it is potentially update and rerender only when prop or state change occurs.
3.unmounting phase - this is final phase.in which componet is destroyed and removed from the dom.(release the momery)
----------------------
ref-
references in react.it is attribute which helps to store reference to the perticular react element or comp.
it is used to return references to perticular element or comp. we use ref in following scenarios
1. when we need to manage focus,select text etc.
2.to integrate with third party libraries.
----------------------
events in react-
in raect events are triggerd reaction to specific action like mouse hover, click etc.
---------------------



